Knowing the list were rendering here our list items are as wide as the list because we're wrapping list
on this view here around our scroll you.
Therefore this sets the width for the scroll you add that sets the width 40 items in there.
Now let's say we had a different width here on the list and let's say the width of a list item should
be just 60 percent of the list.
So it's not 100 percent which is the default but just 60 percent if we do that and we get started you
see now this sits on the left which makes sense the default positioning here.
If you set a with on an item which is inside of a flex box and list items are instead of a flex box
because scroll view internally also uses flex box in the end even though there are some differences
compared to the normal flex box and I'll come back to those but it still uses flex box and Day offers
since we set up with the default of stretching child items along the cross axis and the cross axis would
be the horizontal axis because we have flex direction column as a default but the default of stretching
is overwritten because we have a width on our list item so in our child elements now we still might
want to center these items in the list though and for this you can go to the scroll you and assign a
style there.
Though not food a style prop which you can use but which doesn't allow you to stall anything but to
style the content in a scroll view and apply for example flex settings for the content you need to use
to content container style and that's just something to memorize or to look up a new official docs of
course for a scroll view and for a flat list you have that content container style that you use to control
the layout inside of that scroll view.
Now here on that content container style we can now refer to styles list and therefore let me actually
rename this current list style we're applying that and wrapping view to list container because in the
end it's a container around our list and this year is to list itself.
Alternatively you could have named this list content of course but I'll just name it list and rename
the Abra thing to list container they have for this year will be written renamed to list container and
now we can add a new list property here to the style sheet and that's now inside of the scroll view
styling our container or laying out our container content to be precise and there since this uses flex
books internally you can use a line items to control the alignment along the cross axis and set this
to centre and destroyed now make sure that items are centered again in case they are smaller and that's
indeed what's happening here.
So with that you know how to control and lay out the content inside of a scrolled view or all follow
list in general now what if you also want to control the Flex box along the main axis though.
Let's say our list here actually shouldn't start right below this box here with our controls but a little
bit further down it should start at the bottom of the screen and then grow up to the top and then only
be scroll label when it reaches the top.
This can all be controlled with our list style which is the style applied to content container style.
So with this content container style you can control this too by adding justify content because justify
content allows you to position content along the main axis of the Flex box and flex box main axis by
default is the vertical axis because the default direction is column.
So here let's now use flex end instead of the default which is flex start and flex and should now actually
move the items to the end of the list.
So let's see where that works.
Huh.
Doesn't seem to work right.
The problem here is that the scroll view only grows this internal view which it wraps in the end when
new items are added.
Now we want that internal view to grow automatically on a normal view.
We would achieve this by adding flex 1.
So let's try this here on this list styling we add to the scroll view as well.
We added here now you see this behaves correctly it starts here at the bottom and now lets grotesque
and hope we don't solve this too early.
And you see we can scroll so this actually is growing and works and exactly the way we want it's scroll
lable and generally works in the way we want but you'll notice that you actually can't read scroll it's
such that you always see the most recent item you can scroll there but then it jumps back up and that's
probably not what we want on Android.
It also doesn't work there.
If we now start guessing you'll see the same behavior.
Well if I would get there there the only difference is that it's broken for a different reason.
I can't even scroll so flex one doesn't really do the job.
What you can use there instead is something we haven't used before and that's flex grow now flex grow.
Also make sure that the item to which you add this grows and takes up as much space as it can.
Just like flex one the differences that flex grow works a bit differently internally.
It's more flexible than flex flex.
Simply says take all the available space in all directions you can get flex grow basically instructs
the container to be able to grow to be able to take as much space as it can get and it will but it keeps
D.
Our behavior it has normally in this case of the scroll view where does this scroll lable and can exceed
the boundaries of the screen as well.
So it's a bit more flexible and you probably don't need that that often on a normal view but on a scroll
view it's exactly what we need.
And I'm just showing this here because this is a special case which you just have to know or which you
might stumble over.
And typically you then find solutions on stack overflow and so on here you find it in this course because
it is a scenario which you might encounter therefore hopefully you can then recall this lecture and
see how to solve this.
So I added flex grow to that list property and now let's give this another try here on Io s.
If we start guessing numbers here now you see I can actually strolled such that the latest item is visible
and it can still also scroll such that the oldest item is visible.
So now it is showing you behavior we want things to flex grow.
And on Android it'll be the same if we start a game there.
You see now I can scroll is here as well and I can see both the most recent guess and the oldest guess.
So this is now working in the way it should here on Android and I was and I was showing all of this
simply so that you are aware of these patterns of these special content container style on scroll view.
And I also wanted to make sure that you were aware of some of the issues you can run into when you start
styling list and when you want to add your own layout there then these are some tricks which can be
very handy if you encountered that situation in your app.